gh-95754: Better error when script shadows a standard library or third party module (#113769)
python/cpython: Doc/whatsnew/3.13.rst

  variables. See also :ref:`using-on-controlling-color`.
  (Contributed by Pablo Galindo Salgado in :gh:`112730`.)

* A common mistake is to write a script with the same name as a
  standard library module. The interpreter now detects this and
  displays a more helpful error message.
  (Contributed by Shantanu Jain in :gh:`95754`.)

  .. code-block:: shell-session

    $ python random.py
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/home/random.py", line 1, in <module>
        import random; print(random.randint(5))
        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^
      File "/home/random.py", line 1, in <module>
        import random; print(random.randint(5))
                            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

>     AttributeError: module 'random' has no attribute 'randint' (most likely due to '/home/random.py' shadowing the standard library module named 'random')

Reviewer: This is a really big improvement, but I worry that beginners (who are most likely to be stumbling upon this error) still might not understand what's meant by "shadowing" the standard library. I wonder if something like this might be better -- tell them exactly what to do to fix the problem?

```suggestion
    AttributeError: module 'random' has no attribute 'randint' (consider renaming '/home/random.py', which may be shadowing the standard library 'random' module)
```

Reviewer 2: +1 for actionable error messages.

* https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/error-messages/show-fix?hl=en
* https://developers.google.com/chat/design/errors
* https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/win32/uxguide/mess-error

  variables. See also :ref:`using-on-controlling-color`.
  (Contributed by Pablo Galindo Salgado in :gh:`112730`.)

* A common mistake is to write a script with the same name as a
  standard library module. When this results in errors, we now
  display a more helpful error message:

  .. code-block:: shell-session

    $ python random.py
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/home/random.py", line 1, in <module>
        import random; print(random.randint(5))
        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^
      File "/home/random.py", line 1, in <module>
        import random; print(random.randint(5))
                            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

>     AttributeError: module 'random' has no attribute 'randint' (consider renaming '/home/random.py' since it has the same name as the standard library module named 'random')

Reviewer: This error message is _great_ now, thanks! I might do this, to make it _slightly_ more concise, but no strong opinion:

```suggestion
    AttributeError: module 'random' has no attribute 'randint' (consider renaming '/home/random.py' since it has the same name as the standard library 'random' module)
```

  Similarly, if a script has the same name as a third party
  module it attempts to import, we also display a more helpful
  error message:

  .. code-block:: shell-session

    $ python numpy.py
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/home/numpy.py", line 1, in <module>
        import numpy as np; np.array([1,2,3])
        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
      File "/home/numpy.py", line 1, in <module>
        import numpy as np; np.array([1,2,3])
                            ^^^^^^^^

>     AttributeError: module 'numpy' has no attribute 'array' (consider renaming '/home/numpy.py' if it has the same name as a third party module you intended to import)

Reviewer: Nit: this should be hyphenated in the error message

```suggestion
    AttributeError: module 'numpy' has no attribute 'array' (consider renaming '/home/numpy.py' if it has the same name as a third-party module you intended to import)
```

  variables. See also :ref:`using-on-controlling-color`.
  (Contributed by Pablo Galindo Salgado in :gh:`112730`.)

* A common mistake is to write a script with the same name as a
  standard library module. When this results in errors, we now
  display a more helpful error message:

  .. code-block:: shell-session

    $ python random.py
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/home/random.py", line 1, in <module>
        import random; print(random.randint(5))
        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^
      File "/home/random.py", line 1, in <module>
        import random; print(random.randint(5))
                            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

>     AttributeError: module 'random' has no attribute 'randint' (consider renaming '/home/random.py' since it has the same name as the standard library module named 'random'and takes precedence over it on sys.path)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    AttributeError: module 'random' has no attribute 'randint' (consider renaming '/home/random.py' since it has the same name as the standard library module named 'random' and takes precedence over it on sys.path)
```
